## values_list('', flat=True)

* 该查询会获得一个 `django.db.models.query.ValuesListQuerySet`类型的变量。如果想转化成`LIST`类型的，可以用下面粗暴的方法：
    ```py
    picture_ids = list(picture_foreign_pictures.values_list('picture_id', flat=True))
    ```

## difference save() vs create()

### create(**kwargs)
A convenience method for creating an object and saving it all in one step. Thus:

```py
    p = Person.objects.create(first_name="Bruce", last_name="Springsteen")
```

and:

```py
    p = Person(first_name="Bruce", last_name="Springsteen")
    p.save(force_insert=True)
```

are equivalent.

The `force_insert` parameter is documented elsewhere, but all it means is that a new object will always be created. Normally you won’t need to worry about this. However, if your model contains a manual primary key value that you set and if that value already exists in the database, a call to `create()` will fail with an `IntegrityError` since primary keys must be unique. Be prepared to handle the exception if you are using manual primary keys.

## How Django knows to UPDATE vs. INSERT

You may have noticed Django database objects use the same `save()` method for creating and changing objects. Django abstracts the need to use `INSERT` or `UPDATE` SQL statements. Specifically, when you call `save()`, Django follows this algorithm:

* If the object's primary key attribute is set to a value that evaluates to `True` (i.e., a value other than `None` or the empty string), Django executes an `UPDATE`.
* If the object's primary key attribute is not set or if the `UPDATE` didn't update anything, Django executes an `INSERT`.

The one gotcha here is that you should be careful not to specify a primary-key value explicitly when saving new objects, if you cannot guarantee the primary-key value is unused.

In Django 1.5 and earlier, Django did a `SELECT` when the primary key attribute was set. If the `SELECT` found a row, then Django did an `UPDATE`, otherwise it did an `INSERT`. The old algorithm results in one more query in the `UPDATE` case. There are some rare cases where the database doesn't report that a row was updated even if the database contains a row for the object's primary key value. An example is the PostgreSQL `ON UPDATE` trigger which returns `NULL`. In such cases it is possible to revert to the old algorithm by setting the select_on_save option to True.

### Forcing an INSERT or UPDATE

In some rare circumstances, it's necessary to be able to force the `save()` method to perform an SQL `INSERT` and not fall back to doing an `UPDATE`. Or vice-versa: update, if possible, but not insert a new row. In these cases you can pass the `force_insert=True` or `force_update=True` parameters to the `save()` method. Obviously, passing both parameters is an error: `you cannot both insert and update at the same time!`

It should be very rare that you'll need to use these parameters. Django will almost always do the right thing and trying to override that will lead to errors that are difficult to track down. This feature is for advanced use only.

Using `update_fields` will force an update similarly to `force_update`.

### Explicitly specifying auto-primary-key values

```py
>>> b3 = Blog(id=3, name='Cheddar Talk', tagline='Thoughts on cheese.')
>>> b3.id     # Returns 3.
>>> b3.save()
>>> b3.id     # Returns 3.
```

If you assign auto-primary-key values manually, make sure not to use an already-existing primary-key value! If you create a new object with an explicit primary-key value that already exists in the database, Django will assume you're changing the existing record rather than creating a new one.

```py
b4 = Blog(id=3, name='Not Cheddar', tagline='Anything but cheese.')
b4.save()  # Overrides the previous blog with ID=3!
```

Explicitly specifying auto-primary-key values is mostly useful for bulk-saving objects, when you're confident you won't have primary-key collision.